# Biological Significance

This folder contains several files that document the biological significance of the output from the pep-seq-pipline.

Our main approach in establishing biological significance was to search the literature for publications that confirmed the toxic nature of the motifs (see "knownAMP_Intersect_Our_Motifs")

## Contents:

### [Essential_Genes](../biological_significance/Essential_Genes.txt)

This is a published list of genes proposed to be the most critical to maintaining homeostasis (normal cell function) in E. coli. We are not currently using it as part of the analysis, but it might be handy in the future.

source: https://mbio.asm.org/content/9/1/e02096-17

Page Author: Brian

### [dallon_analysis.markdown](../biological_significance/dallon_analysis.markdown)

A summary of the number of our motifs that matched the peptide sequences from Figure 23 (page 53) of Emma Dallon's master's thesis* (data available in this directory. See: [dallons_peptides.csv](../biological_significance/dallons_peptides.csv), which was obtained from the text of her master's thesis, and [dallon_intersect_our_motifs.csv](../biological_significance/dallon_intersect_our_motifs.csv))

Page Author: Brian

*Dallon's thesis is called: "Exploration of Antimicrobial Activity in Natural Peptides and High-Throughput Discovery of Synthetic Peptides"

### [dallon_intersect_our_motifs.csv](../biological_significance/dallon_intersect_our_motifs.csv)

This file contains the data that is summarized in [dallon_analysis.markdown](../biological_significance/dallon_analysis.markdown) and was produced usuing [motifFinder.py](../biological_significance/motifFinder.py)

Page Author: Brian

### [dallons_peptides.csv](../biological_significance/dallons_peptides.csv)

This file contains peptides that Emma Dallon studied in depth in her master's thesis. The data was obtained by examinig the thesis document.

Page Author: Brian


### [KnownAMP.csv](../biological_significance/knownAMP.csv)

This file contains the sequences of known antimicrobial peptides, and the antimicrobial peptide databases from which they came.

Page Author: Kristi

### [knownAMP_intersect_ourMotifs.csv](../biological_significance/knownAMP_intersect_ourMotifs.csv)

This file contains a table of the known AMPs that matched the motifs generated by the pipeline, as well as any published information we could find about the peptide. This file was generated using [motifFinder.py](../biological_significance/motifFinder.py)

Page Author: Brian

### [motifFinder.py](../biological_significance/motifFinder.py)

A python script that takes an input file of motifs, and searches for those motifs in another input file of peptide sequences.

Page Author: Brian

### [motifs.csv](../biological_significance/motifs.csv)

the file of motifs used to generate knownAMP_Intersect_Our_Motifs adn Dallon_Analysis

Page Author: Kristi

### [notes.txt](../biological_significance/notes.txt)

A space where Brian has kept track of random things he has learned that might someday be useful for this project.

### [pdb_files_length_8.txt](../biological_significance/pdb_files_length_8.txt)

A list with links to PDB entries for peptides of length 8. We gathered this information thinking we could somehow use it to perform an autodoc molecular dynamics analysis on other PDB entries of known proteins in E. coli. We have, for the time being, given up on this idea. However, *it would be interesting to see if these peptides contain our motifs!*

### Please direct qestions about specific pages to the page author:

Brian: bcbrown365@gmail.com

Kristi:
